Hi, everyone, in this letter, we are going to create drugs, start and drug and event listeners.
All right, so first things first.
Let's grab the elements that we want to work with.
The first one is going to be our lists.
All right.
Now, these lists, they are actually the.
This is a very this list is this very variable name inside which we are going to store these four lists,
containers, right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say query selector all because there are four of them.
Right, and each one of them has a class of list, the next thing is we are going to grab our list items
as well.
These are the ones that we are going to grab and lists are the ones that we are going to place them
in.
Right.
So we are also going to say document that query selector all because there are eight lists.
So I'm just going to say it all and you're going to select them by their class, which is a list item.
All right.
So what I'm going to do is, first off, I'm going to initiate I'm going to create a variable that is
called dragged the item and I'm going to set it initially to know.
All right.
Because we are going to change its value later on, so let's go ahead and let's create a for loop because
there are multiple lists.
We want to apply a function whenever the user or an event listener on each of these lists, whenever
the user grabs them.
Right.
So let's go ahead and let's say we could do that for each.
We could do for each.
But I don't want to do it in this lecture because I want to use for loops, for arrays as well, because
actually for each is like the hot new thing that is used for a race.
But we can use for loops as well, like regular old for for loops.
So I'm just going to use that.
And so the loop variable is going to be a and we are going to say it is going to start from zero.
The air is going to go all the way to list.
List items that length less than that, and whenever we do this, it means that we are actually targeting
the index.
So if we have eight list items, the index, the index of the last item is going to be seven, but the
length is eight.
Right.
So seven is one less than eight.
That's why we say list items that length less than this.
And let's increment it by one each time that this happens.
Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a constant and I'm going to call it item and we are
going to set it to list items and our Aluf variable.
Let's go ahead and let's consider log there so we can see what is it that we are getting right now at
this point.
So let's come in here.
So this is our project.
Let's open up or inspect.
And let's going to console so if I remove this and now let's go ahead and let's refresh the page, we
are going to get all of our eight alist items right.
So we have just gotten all of them.
And it means that we are selecting them correctly.
Right.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to say items that add event listener.
So each time one of those event, one of those items is selected, I want to run an event.
The event is not going to be a click event.
It is going to be a drag sturdevant drag sturdevant.
Right.
And when this event happens, I want to run a function.
Or whenever I receive this input by this by the user dysfunctionality, when the user does this Dreux
start, when the drug is started for the item, I want to implement something.
I want to grab our drug at item variable and I want to set it to our item.
So whichever item that the user has clicked on is going to be our drug item.
And now what I'm going to do here is I'm going to grab our I'm going to grab our item.
And I'm going to say style dot, OK, style the display.
That display should be equal to.
Not all right.
So I'm going to say that the reason that I've done this is we are going to go into our final into our
finished application.
So if I were to grab this item number eight and just move it like even by one millimeter, then this
item number eight is actually removed from this container.
It is not actually removed.
It is just received a display of nine none.
The reason that this happens is whenever we selected and grab it until we release it somewhere, this
item is like in the hover.
It's like hovering.
It's on the cloud.
These are not proper terminologies that I use here.
It means that the item doesn't have a specific place.
You could call this item a homeless item.
All right.
Because it has been removed from its home and it is looking for a home.
We could drop it in its original home or in in three different other homes.
But whenever you grab it and even you move it by like a millimeter or like an inch or a like a tenth
of an inch, what, a smaller than an inch, then it is going to this drug start is going to kick in.
So let's go ahead and let's see that for ourselves.
And now we can see that item number one is removed.
So let's go ahead and let's take a look at one more time.
I'm going to grab item number six.
And when I move it, then item number six is removed C and we cannot see it again.
This is the drug start event listener.
But there is something missing here.
The thing is that whenever this event happens, whenever this drugs start happens, we can see that
our item immediately goes away.
There is no time for this item to stay on top.
And we we have no way of like dragging the time that this function requires to be implemented.
So in order to do that, what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab a sit time out.
Now, the cool thing about this time out is that even if I provide even if I provide like zero seconds,
like zero milliseconds, this is still going to stretch the time that this function is going to run.
So I'm just going to put this here and in here.
I'm just going to provide it with zero milliseconds.
Now, this is the cool thing about the Satima function.
So now if I grab it, you can see that I can actually move it, even though the set time out is zero.
But this still provides us with a simple with a little bit of delay, and that is what we want.
But still, I just want to put it to 50 so it doesn't confuse you that much.
So the delay is going to be fifty millisecond.
Right.
And now it is gone.
So if I grab this, it has gone, gone, gone.
Everything is gone because we have specified the drugs start, but where is the drug?
And let's go ahead and specify that as well.
So I'm going to come down here, I'm going to grab the item and I'm going to say an event listener,
the event is going to be drag and right and we're going to run a function.
What does the function?
OK, what is that function?
What is the function going to do?
We will take a look at that.
So I should provide a parentheses there.
All right.
So the function is going to be again, we are going to say sit time out.
The reason for that is the same reason that we we have here and we are going to sit at 250 milliseconds.
We have grabbed our item and we have set display to none.
And now when the drag is ended, we want to see it again.
OK.
And right after that, we are going to call our drugged item once more, OK?
And we are going to say that it is not all right, because whenever you select an item and you want
to drag it, then this drug item is going to be equal to the item that the user has selected.
But when the user drops it or when the drag event is ended, we want again reset that drug item because
the user might select that item or the user might select another item to drug.
So we have to reset the counter.
We have to set it to null once more.
So let's go ahead and let's take a look at it so we can see that we cannot move it to this container
is, of course, because these containers, none of the containers they have any events of for for for
the drug.
But the thing is now, whenever I grab it enough, if I move it and release it, it is going to come
back to its original state as opposed to our previous example where we grabbed it.
And it was like removed from this container because the display none kicked in.
Now the display lock has kicked in and we can still see our element or item.
This is going to be it for this lecture in the next election.
We are going to go ahead and grab the the containers inside, which we want to place in these list items.
And there are like a bunch of event listeners there, which I promise are going to be simple.
So see you guys then.